What about stuff like,
okay, this is great, Steve.
You're using a JSON files
populating that data.
We can say something like, what about
that thing where I just tweet at myself?
That other one was Echo Chamber.
Where I just tweeted myself like,
that was hitting API from a database.
And like I would I do control
this database but like,
I don't control that database and
other things could happen.
I'm like yeah, that's true.
That's true.
It's totally accurate, check this out.
So we can do it from the browser we
can do it from the command line.
I am going to paste this in
because it is gnarly enough.
It is in the notes and it's also like,
I believe it's in the docs as well.
I'll paste it in.
We will talk about it.
You've got this playwright open, which
opens the browser just like we saw before.
I mean,
you can do it with the codegen as well.
No, no, no.
I'm not doing impulsive
changes to the plan.
What I want to bring to
your attention is this.
Are you all familiar with what a HAR is?
A HAR is basically anywhere
in Chrome in the network tab.
If you look at any network request and
right-click it,
you can do like copy as curl.
Super cool.
Then you can paste it in there and
get the network request.
The cool thing about Chrome too is that
it'll store stuff like the auth token and
cookies and stuff like that.
A HAR is basically a file format that is
a recording of all the network requests.
That it saves to a file.
So we've got the save network request.HAR,
and then the glob is
going to be like maybe, we don't
need to save every network request,
maybe only ones that are the API routes,
right, and then spin up localhost 3000.
And we've got the code gen here, and
we could hit record and go somewhere.
And it did put this interesting
extra thing in here,
which is record HAR, great, great, great.
It's gonna write it to this
file in the root directory,
not my greatest choice ever,
with this URL filter.
And then we'll also generate the test.
Cool, cool, cool.
Go around, let's hit this one.
Pika, great.
And we'll stop the recording.
And you do need to close
the browser context.
But this will create a file
recording all the network requests.
Out of the box,
Playwright also has the ability,
just like we saw with Mock Service Worker,
to intercept network requests,
right, which you can do manually,
just like we saw with mock service worker,
or it has a method routes from a HAR file.
So theoretically,
you could go navigate your entire site,
record all the API requests, and
then have that be the mock server.
Of your own real data as you navigate
around and like run your tests, right?
And theoretically, if it's also recording
the moves you took to make the test.
You should have a completely like for
all the network requests mocked out test
suite that you can go navigate
do all the things in your app.
Are they gonna be the prettiest?
Are they gonna be maintainable?
No.
Are they going to exist?
Yes.
All right, and then you may
choose to begin to refactor them.
You might choose to begin to like,
figure out our integration tests.
Why would you want unit tests or like what
is the level that you need to get to?
You could choose to do
all of those things, but
this will get you most of the way
there incredibly quickly.
And anyone who judges you whatevs
usually will write this when
we get the browser context.close.
Let's see, do I get a file.
There it is, networkquest.heart.
Let's open it real quick.
It's not anything to look at, to be clear.
But you can squint at it and
see some things about it as well.
As you can see,
it's effectively a JSON file.
And the reason I bring this up is like a
lot of times I will do this recording and
then as a JSON file,
you can edit it, right?
Like I can probably, let's see.
Cool, like these
are basically everything from
the headers to the text
response to the mimeType.
That everything that basically happened,
it is a recording.
You can then use this in your test
to then simulate the entire network
requests at the moment of, and
get all of that stuff incredibly quickly,
and also do try to tie a lot
of the stuff together.
What I will do a lot of times,
if I'm doing the thing where I'm trying
to translate what I got from
the API into something I can use,
a lot of times even when
I'm running a unit test.
I might choose to do all the recordings
of all the things I'm gonna need, right?
Put the UI in a bunch of different states,
record all the network responses, right?
And then break that into a bunch
of JSON files that I can load
into the unit tests and
do all the massaging of the data with, and
then tweak and
do a bunch of other stuff with.
And using one tool does not mean it can't
inform another one of the tools that
you use.
And make stuff a lot easier for you.
And so like all of this stuff,
what tests you choose to use can
all kind of like string together?
Dustin?
>> So which is better Cypress or
Playwright?
>> I think you should totally
watch my Cypress course is great.
[LAUGH] I would say like it to be
clear there is a new version of Cyprus
that apparently has
component testing built in.
I have not migrated yet.
So, to be clear,
that was being a little bit glib.
I will, sometimes you make
mature technology choices.
Sometimes you're on an old
version of Cypress.
I think I'm on version nine
there is currently version 12.
And when we're doing the other,
we have like two code bases.
And someone on my team said,
can I use Playwright?
I was like, yeah, go for
we're already behind anyway, so like,
it's gonna be different no matter what.
And then I ended up liking it, but
I have not used a new version Cypress
I don't actually really know.
But that's pretty good, right?
And so a lot of this is super powerful but
like I said before,
it can also inform your unit tests.
It can also inform your component tests,
it can also inform other parts of your
testing is not a necessarily well if you
generate from Playwright it only works with
Playwright this is a JSON file it's
actually a standard that Chrome could have
just using the Chrome protocols
that could have given you and
you can like begin to start like figuring
out what you wanna do with this data.
Here's the body with the text.
You maybe would format that JSON parse,
that thing, right?
And you will have roughly something that
you could use for unit tests as well.